t000  This is a tale of land, wind and water that started from the moment we embarked on the ferry from Harwich in England. From high up on the deck of Stena Britannica, our ferry to Holland, the historic port of Harwich looks like a toy landscape on its promontory amid a huge sea and sky. Tiny warehouses and colourful bathing sheds line the waterfront.The Wandering Kiwi family were embarking on a tour of the ‘Low Countries’ of Belgium and Holland. This is a pilgrimage we make each year to connect with Mr Wandering Kiwi’s extended family. But this is the first time we have travelled by ferry. Usually we do a flight or rail plus hire car thing, or drive across via the channel tunnel. Needless to say this involves a lot of driving; a lot of time in the car.This year we took our car on the Stena Line ferry from Harwich, relaxing on board the comfortable ship before being deposited right in the heart of the Netherlands, a bare few hours from Amsterdam itself. Wandering Kiwi Jr quickly kicked off her shoes and settled in to the luxurious cabin. Until it was time for the magician’s show in the kids’ room – the ‘Amazing Billini’ had the crowd eating out of his hand. Snoozing, reading, watching TV; the time quickly passed and soon we were on the road in the Netherlands.The UNESCO World Heritage Site of Kinderdijk is only about 50 kilometres from the Hook of Holland so it was an unmissable stop on our road trip. The 19 windmills striding across the landscape of reeds and polders instantly called to mind the scenes recreated by Dutch landscape painters of previous centuries.
t001 The Dutch start-up Suggestme allows you to create your own personal Amsterdam city map by selecting hotspots suggested by other travellers and locals on social media, including Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Along with key landmarks and information these hotspots are then transferred onto your city map, transforming your Amsterdam map into something completely personal and useful for your trip.The maps are printed on waterproof material that cannot be torn, and sent directly to you at home – ready for use ahead of your trip to Amsterdam!
t002 FirstToKnow.com has launched a two-year round the world trip that visits all 962 UNESCO World Heritage sites. The trip takes takes two years, all for a mere £1 million.f you’re feeling a bit more frugal than that, Stena Line recommends taking yourself to Holland’s UNESCO sites, each one chosen for its cultural and natural heritage. Here is a look at our favourites:Kinderdijk is a village belonging to the municipality of Molenwaard, about 15 km east of Rotterdam. Its group of 19 windmills, built around 1740 to drain the polder at the confluence of the Lek and Noord rivers, is the largest concentration of old windmills in the Netherlands, and have been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1997.Schokland was the first UNESCO World Heritage Site in the Netherlands. A former island in the Dutch Zuiderzee, Schokland lost its status as an island when the Noordoostpolder was reclaimed from the sea in 1942. The remains are still visible as a slightly elevated part in the polder and by the still partly intact retaining wall of the waterfront of ‘Middelbuurt’. Schokland is a popular archeological site and host to the Schokland Museum.Stelling van Amsterdam is a 135 km long ring of fortifications around Amsterdam constructed between 1880 and 1920. The Stelling consists of 42 forts located between 10 to 15 kilometers the centre, and lowlands that can easily be flooded in time of war. These can all be visited, but Monuments Day, on the second Saturday in September, is the ideal day to visit as entrance is free.
t003 The picturesque town of Delft, birthplace of both the iconic Delft Blue artisans’ guild and its most eminent painter, Johannes Vermeer, is less than an hour’s train journey from Amsterdam. Cobbled streets line lily-draped waterways – this town makes for an ideal day trip from the capital. Here are three (and a half) things to get up to in that short space of time:1.Eat profitjes in Markt (Market Square)2.Visit Oude Kerk (Old Church)3.Early-evening drink in Café Belvédère4.half Get out of Delft
t004 Besides the Rijksmuseum and Van Gogh Museum reopening in April, there are loads of arts events happening throughout Holland in 2013 to warrant a visit from any art lover. Here are a few that we at Stena Line are particularly looking forward to this spring.Art Rotterdam Week is an international modern art fair that takes the form of site fairs, pop-up shows and open studios. 75 galleries from 10 different countries take part in the young, dynamic art fair. Entering its eighteenth year, and attracting 11,000 visitors, this dynamic, exciting art fair for contemporary art lasts five days and offers a venue where art aficionados can meet. 5 to 10 February 2013Following monumental success in Montreal, San Francisco and Dallas, Kunsthal Rotterdam will present a retrospective of Jean Paul Gaultier’s work, illustrating how the designer has shaped fashion over the last 35 years with his avant-garde creations. The Fashion of Jean-Paul Gaultier: From the Sidewalk to the Catwalk was initiated and produced by the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts in collaboration with the Maison Jean Paul Gaultier-Paris and in Rotterdam, the exhibition will bring to life the world of Gaultier and gives a unique opportunity to visitors to have access to haute couture, stage and movie costumes. 10 February to 12 May 2013.
t005 Today kicks off Keukenhof Spring Garden, home to Europe’s largest and most beautiful display of horticultural exuberance, featuring millions of daffodils, fragrant hyacinths and more varieties of tulips than imaginable!Every year the garden attracts thousands of visitors and this year will be no exception. With 2015 marking the 125th anniversary of Van Gogh’s death, Keukenhof Gardens will pay a floral tribute to the life and works of the 19th century post-impressionist artist, with park’s theme “Van Gogh: 125 years of inspiration”. The highlight of the park will undoubtedly be the flower mosaic based on a self-portrait by the artist. The mosaic will measure 250 square metres and is planted using different colours of tulips.Visitors will able to take organised Van Gogh 2015 tours organised by Keukenhof and museums such as Van Gogh Museum and The Kröller-Müller Museum.Getting to Keukenhof couldn’t be simpler by car. Stena Line offers twice-daily, seven hour return crossings between Harwich and the Hook of Holland. Fares start from £59 one way for an adult and car. www.stenaline.co.uk/ferry-to-holland. Additional adults cost start from £14.50 and children (between four and 15 years old) from £7.25 one way. Foot passenger prices start from £36.50 per adult and £18.25 for children. Infants (under four years old) travel free of charge. Cabins start from £15 per person each way. Alternatively Stena Line’s Dutchflyer rail-and-sail service allows customers to take any Greater Anglia service to Harwich, and then on to any Dutch city of their choice, including Lisse. 
t006 Every year on 5 December, St. Nicholas Eve, major festive celebrations commence with Sinterklaas parties. Also known as De Goedheiligman (The Good Holy Man), Sinterklaas is a traditional holiday figure, believed to bring presents to children. But don’t think Santa overlooks the whole of Holland – he still brings presents on Christmas Eve as well!However, Sinterklaas’ presents are just the beginning of a whole month of festivities, including Candle Night in Gouda, attended by thousands of people from all over the country, who gather in Gouda’s central market square in front of the Gothic town hall. Street and electric lights are turned off, and the light of thousands of candles fills the street.Despite being one of England’s most treasured figures, the historic city of Deventer pays homage to Charles Dickens with a two-day Dickens Festival on 22-23 December. 160,000 people descend on this free event, which fills the town centre. The entire range of Dickens’ characters are represented by locals in impressively faithful garb, all contributing to a thoroughly festive atmosphere of carolling, orchestras, street parties and fairy lights, all inspired by the most festive author of all time.From start to finish, Holland is one of the best places in the world to enjoy the festive season. Why not head over with Stena Line ferries and get involved?
t007 Nothing says festive fun quite like the roasted chestnuts, mulled wine and dainty arts and crafts at one of Holland’s Christmas markets. So we have created a guide to some of the country’s best traditional and more unusual markets, for anyone planning a trip on the ferry to Holland this December.Fast becoming a local Sunday institution, is the ‘Funky Markets’ at Westergasfabriek, an atmospheric industrial site overlooking a canal to the north of Amsterdam. Now running a festive edition, where the old gasworks are decked out with cheerful decorations and fresh pine, the ‘Funky Christmas Market is the place to go for quirky gifts and cool crafts with a modern edge.he Funky Xmas Market is on 18 December, from 12:00 to 18:00.  Free entrance.Maastricht may not be well known by UK visitors, but this ancient town, dating back from Roman times, is famous for its magical Christmas market in Holland, when the cobbled streets around Vrijthof Square are transformed into a ‘Winterland’  – rolling out an ice-skating rink, a big wheel and hundreds of traditional market stalls selling local sweets, crafts and all sorts of festive treats.Considered to be the largest and oldest underground Christmas market in Europe, the Velvet Cave Christmas market, hosted in the municipal caves of Valkenburg, is perfect for shoppers looking for a market with wow-factor. Spacious, with all of the festive decorations and stalls you’d expect from a traditional Christmas market, visitors can also enjoy mural paintings, sculptures, the unique 18th century chapel inside the cave, buy old Dutch trade artefacts, and see Santa in this very original grotto.
t008 If you bought the Daily Mirror this weekend, you may have spotted journalist Martin Newman’s feature on his family holiday to Amsterdam with Stena Line.As well as stopping over in Amsterdam to show his kids the Anne Frank House and the myriad of canals in this magical city, Martin also travelled to Zeeland for a stay with Aan Zee.
t009 It’s the second week of National Ferry Fortnight 2013, which has got us thinking about all the great reasons to travel by ferry rather than flying. Quite besides the fact that straight-to-DVD sequel Snakes on a Ferry received terrible reviews, every stage of a ferry journey has an upside compared to its alternative.Here is a selection of our reasons why ferry is the superior mode of travel:Unlimited baggage allowance means that you can take the kitchen sink on holiday, and no one will judge you for it.Your kids will love the journey, with free movies and Curious George on board to keep them occupied.Check in times are far shorter than airports, and you don’t even have to take off your belt or shoes when boarding.You can bring your pet on holiday (because why would you want to leave them at home?)You can have a relaxing journey away from it all in a cabin or suite.There is so much leg room, it isn’t even called leg room anymore.None of your sky-high priced airline food – Stena Line has a restaurant and cafe on board which serve amazing food, and full English breakfast on overnight crossings.What you see is what you get – there are no sneaky hidden taxes in the price.We could go on. Happy National Ferry Fortnight, everybody.